So, what is TypeScript
and why would we use it?
TypeScript is a superset to JavaScript.
That simply means that it extends JavaScript.
It builds up on JavaScript.
And unlike JavaScript, TypeScript does not run
in the browser.
Instead, TypeScript has to be compiled to JavaScript
so that it runs again.
Now, why would we then work with it?
Because TypeScript gives us, as a developer,
a better development experience
because it adds certain feature to the code
which only exist during development,
but which still help us write better code
and avoid unwanted errors.
And here's an example.
This is a function, this is some code
where TypeScript can help you.
Now, what could be wrong about this?
Let's simply try it on our own.
For this, you can simply open up your developer tools
in Chrome, for example,
and there go to the JavaScript console.
In there, you can also write some basic JavaScript code
which will then be executed here in the browser.
And, for this simple example, that's all we need.
So, in there, let's define a function now.
A function which is named add
and which takes two parameters, num1 and num2.
Then, let's add curly braces,
and now place your cursor between these braces
and hit Shift + Enter.
This will then simply add a new line.
Now, inside of that function, we can return the result,
num1 plus num2, just like this.
So, that's a very trivial function for adding two numbers.
If you now hit Enter without Shift,
this code will be committed, it will be saved,
and now this add function exists here in the console.
Hence, we can now call add with one and five
and get back six.
Seems to work.
What if you would pass in one and five as strings though?
Then, you get back the string 15.
So, one and five are then concatenated to one longer string
instead of being converted to numbers,
and then added as numbers.
Now, the reason for this is that this is simply
how JavaScript works.
If you have an operation with a plus and at least one
of the two operands is a string,
then both will be combined as strings, essentially.
That's how JavaScript works.
And this, of course, can be a problem here.
Now, you might think that this is a unrealistic scenario
because why would you call the function with two strings?
Well, imagine that you have two inputs in your page.
Two inputs where you fetch some user input.
Now, you should know that whatever data you extract
from such inputs is always extracted as text in JavaScript.
So, even if the user entered a number in an input
on your page, if you extract that data with JavaScript,
it'll be a string.
Now, you can always convert this to a number, of course,
but if you forget this, and you pass the unconverted value
to this function, you might get this unintended result.
Now, that's where TypeScript can help us.
To avoid such a unwanted behavior which occurs at runtime,
so when our code executes, we can use TypeScript.
Now, of course, we could also avoid this behavior
at runtime with JavaScript.
We could add an if check, for example,
to see whether the values we received are strings
or numbers.
That is something we can check with JavaScript,
and this would allow us to avoid such mistakes,
but, of course, that means you have to write extra code
at runtime to make sure that your code works
when you actually could avoid this during development
if you had strict type checks.
So, if you simply could tell JavaScript,
so to say in advance which types of data you want,
and then JavaScript and your IDE could warn you
when you have some code in your program
where wrong types are fed in.
And that's where TypeScript helps us.
It adds strict typing.
In general, TypeScript adds a bunch of features
to JavaScript.
It adds the types, and that's the most important addition.
That's where TypeScript's name comes from.
But it also unlocks certain
next-generation JavaScript features,
which we then can use in our code
without any extra tools like Babel.
It also adds some non next-gen features,
so some features which don't exist in JavaScript at all,
which help us write cleaner code.
Now, all these features are stripped away
once it's compiled, but during development,
those features can help us write cleaner code.
It adds meta-programming features like Decorators.
It has rich configuration options
that allow us as a developer to fine-tune
how code should be compiled.
And it, in general, simply gives us a lot of modern tooling
and integrates greatly into modern tooling
to give us a great development experience.
Now, in this basics refresher here,
I'm not going to dive into all these areas in great detail.
For that, you can check out
my Understanding TypeScript course.
This course dives into TypeScript in great detail
and walks you through all the core features.
So, that's my recommendation
if you wanna learn all about TypeScript.
Here, we're going to dive into some core basics.
And, for that, let's actually come back
to this example I just showed you
now in the context of, at least,
a little bit more realistic webpage.